 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Accountable Health Communities Model



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
In 2017, the Innovation Center launched the Accountable Health Communities (AHC) Model to assess whether identifying and addressing Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries’ health-related social needs (HRSNs) would reduce health care use and costs. The Innovation Center funded entities called bridge organizations to convene a coalition of clinical delivery sites (CDSs) and community service providers (CSPs) to implement the AHC Model in communities across the country. Under the AHC Model, Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were screened by participating entities for five core HRSNs, and up to 8 supplemental HRSNs.

      
            
The AHC Research Identifiable File (RIF) contains beneficiary-level screening and navigation information about individuals participating in the AHC model. Participants included Medicare and Medicaid enrollees, 94% of whom can be linked to other CMS research files. The remaining 6% cannot be linked to Medicaid or Medicaid claims, since their Medicare and/or Medicaid ID was either missing or incomplete.
The file contains data for the entire AHC Model performance period, which began on May 1, 2017 and concluded on April 30, 2023. Screenings were conducted between May 1, 2018, and January 31, 2023, and navigation services were provided to those with at least one health-related social need (HRSN) and two or more emergency department (ED) visits between May 3, 2018, and April 30, 2023.
The file includes one record per beneficiary screening, with some beneficiaries having more than one screening. For each beneficiary, screening outcomes across domains (e.g. food, housing, safety, transportation, utilities) are reported. Some beneficiaries also have supplemental indicators related to disabilities, education, employment, family and community support, mental health, physical activity, and substance use. For screened items where a need is identified, the file contains information about services offered and their outcomes.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Person level identifiers (i.e., BENE_ID, MSIS_ID) that researchers can use to link to other CMS research files
Sociodemographic variables (e.g., date of birth, race and ethnicity, education, income)
HRSN screening results (e.g., HRSNs reported, number of ED visits in the 12 months prior to screening)
Navigation case information for those who were eligible and opted in to receive navigation (e.g., navigation case start and end dates)
Contacts between navigator and beneficiary who received navigation services (e.g., total number of successful contacts during the navigation period)
Navigation outcomes (e.g., beneficiary reported connection with a community service provider, beneficiary had their HRSN(s) resolved)
Special Considerations
Most beneficiaries (94%) in the file have been linked to an identifier (BENE_ID and/or MSIS_ID) that researchers can use to link to other CMS research files. For more information on how to use the data, please refer to the Accountable Health Communities (AHC) Model Data File User Guide.

      
  

    
EPPE Code

              
AHCMD

          


  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare, Medicaid
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
May 2018-April 2023
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Model Participation Data Initiative 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMS Innovation Center is committed to making model data more easily available to stakeholders to advance transparency on model…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Beneficiary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Beneficiary file is one of a set of three files types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Provider 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Provider file is one of a set of three file types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Entity 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CCMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Entity file is one of a set of three file types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

