 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Acute Hospital Care at Home - Hospital



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Acute Hospital Care at Home (AHCAH) initiative, launched in November 2020 in response to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency (PHE), allows Medicare-certified hospitals to treat patients with inpatient-level care at home. Data contained within the AHCAH data set was collected by CMS directly from individual hospitals on either a weekly or monthly basis depending on their participation tier, which is based on the level of experience the facility has with providing hospital at-home services.

      
            
The AHCAH data file set contains two files, a Hospital file and a Patient file, both of which are provided as a set with an approved research request and signed data use agreement. The Hospital file contains hospital-specific information, including facility location information, the waiver participation tier, and the submission date for the data represented in the file record. The submission date represents the data submitted by the facility for the previous month or week.
The Hospital file also contains three key metrics related to the in-home care provided during the data submission time period:
The number of admissions to the inpatient home care setting
The number of patient escalations of care, where the patient is transferred from the home back to the hospital, and
The number of unexpected patient mortalities
The AHCAH file set is organized by release, and each release contains two files (a hospital and a patient file). Researchers should request files by release, as opposed to individual years or months.
There have been two AHCAH releases to date:
First release data submission period: November 2020 - March 2023 (29 months)
Second release data submission period: April 2023 - September 2025 (30 months)
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
CMS Certification Number (CCN), also known as the Facility Identifier
Facility Waiver Participation Tier (based on the level of experience the facility has with providing hospital-at-home services)
Facility Waiver Submission Identifier
Data Submission Date
Discharges
Escalations
Mortalities
Facility Location Information
Special Considerations
AHCAH data may need to be requested in conjunction with Part A claims, beneficiary demographic and eligibility data to fully understand the information in the AHCAH dataset.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Release 1: November 2020-March 2023
Release 2: April 2023-September 2025
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Acute Hospital Care at Home - Patient 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Acute Hospital Care at Home (AHCAH) initiative, launched in November 2020 in response to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency (PHE…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

