 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers & Systems



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
CMS administers several surveys to assess beneficiary experience with different types of health care. Some of these are CMS-only surveys. Others, those designated as CAHPS, have been approved by the AHRQ-overseen CAHPS consortium.

      
            
Healthcare providers/populations addressed by specific, individual surveys include:


Hospital

Home Health

Home and Community Based Services

Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service)

Medicare Advantage & Part D Plan (PDP)

In-Center Hemodialysis

Nationwide Adult Medicaid

Hospice

Accountable Care Organizations

Outpatient and Ambulatory Surgery

Merit-based Incentive Payment System quality payment program


Measures of beneficiary experience focus on the patient experience or perception rather than patient satisfaction. Focus areas include:


Communication with providers

Understanding medication instructions

Coordination of healthcare needs


The number of participating patients and institutions varies by survey. For example, over 4,000 hospitals participates in HCAHPS, and over 7,000 home health agencies participate in HHCAHPS.

Special considerations:


Requests for CAHPS data must include documentation of pre-approval by the CMS CAHPS program.

Please see the CMS website for more information.



      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Survey
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2015-2019
2021-2025
 There are currently two surveys available in physical format and in the VRDC.
Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug Plan Survey data
Available 2015-2025*
Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) Survey data
Available 2015-2025*
*There was no CAHPS survey administration in 2020 for MA, PDP, or Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
For full data file availability, please see the CMS web site.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Health and Retirement Survey - Medicare Linked Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Health and Retirement Study (HRS)-Medicare linked dataset includes HRS survey information linked to CMS claims and assessment data…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) - Medicare Linked Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) collects interview data on functioning in late life among the elderly…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Health Outcomes Survey 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) collects patient-reported outcomes measures from beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

