 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Comprehensive ESRD Care Model - Provider



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
CMS has created an analytical file that contains information about providers who are participating in the Comprehensive ESRD Care (CEC) Model. A related file, the CEC Beneficiary RIF, contains identifying information about the beneficiaries assigned to a provider who is participating in the CEC Model. 
The CEC Provider Performance Year RIF files contain PY finder files for the providers participating in the ESRD Seamless Care Organization (ESCO). 

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)


ESCO Name

Period of Performance

Tax Identification Number of the practice/facility associated with the Individual NPI

Parent Participant NPI Number

Organization Name

Provider Type description

CMS Certification Number (CCN)


Special considerations 


This file can be linked to any other CMS file that include the TIN, CCN, or NPI.

PY1 is for a 15 month period beginning in October, all other PYs are for a calendar year beginning in January.

All technical questions related to the CEC program should be directed to [email protected].



      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Plan and Provider
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
October 2015-2020
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Comprehensive ESRD Care Model - Beneficiary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			CMS has created an analytical file that contains enrollment data for beneficiaries in the Comprehensive ESRD Care (CEC) Model. A…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Model Participation Data Initiative 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMS Innovation Center is committed to making model data more easily available to stakeholders to advance transparency on model…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

