 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

CMMI Model Data Sharing Beneficiary



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Beneficiary file is one of a set of three files types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each model. A Beneficiary is someone who is entitled to health services under a federal health insurance plan. A Beneficiary is associated with an Entity and is not tied to a specific Provider, but rather to the set of providers in an entity group.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Model ID (with which the Beneficiary is associated)
Entity ID (with which the Beneficiary is associated)
CCW Beneficiary ID
Beneficiary Start Date
Beneficiary End Date
Beneficiary Operational End Date
Voluntary Alignment Indicator
The Entity ID is the only key field needed to link a Beneficiary to their Entity.
The Beneficiary file also contains the CCW Beneficiary ID that can be used to link to claims and other relevant CCW data.
A Beneficiary may have an End Date of 12/31/9999, which indicates that the Beneficiary is “currently” participating in the model.
The “Beneficiary Operational End Date” field is only applicable to models with defined-length beneficiary episodes, such as the Oncology Care Model (OCM), so it will not be populated for many models’ beneficiary data. For these kinds of defined-length episodic models, the “Beneficiary Operational End Date” variable represents the end date for a full-length beneficiary episode, regardless of whether or not the beneficiary’s provider organization remains in the model for its entire duration. If a participating provider leaves the model before the end of the full episode, the field “Beneficiary End Date” would match the field “Entity End Date”, but the field “Beneficiary Operational End Date” would reflect any additional time the Beneficiary is in the model after the Entity leaves.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2016-2025 Q1
This file set will be updated on a quarterly basis, reflecting changes captured for the prior quarter.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
Q2 2026 may be requested after 7/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Provider 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Provider file is one of a set of three file types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Entity 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CCMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Entity file is one of a set of three file types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Model Participation Data Initiative 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMS Innovation Center is committed to making model data more easily available to stakeholders to advance transparency on model…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

