 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Model Participation Data Initiative



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The CMS Innovation Center is committed to making model data more easily available to stakeholders to advance transparency on model performance and to support external research and learning. In line with this commitment, the CMS Innovation Center is releasing model participant data for use in data analysis research projects.

      
            
These data files may be used as ‘finder files’ in combination with other requested Chronic Conditions Warehouse (CCW) files to isolate results to include (or not include as desired) entities, providers and or beneficiaries participating in specific models.
Each model has a set of up to three (3) files, one per participant type:
Entity file
Provider file
Beneficiary file
Data for each model will be updated the first month of each calendar quarter, unless the model has ended. Models which have ended are identified in the table below.
The quarterly file updates are full replacement files and contain data from the launch of each model to the current quarter. Note: Participating entities, providers and beneficiaries may frequently change due to time lags in updates by model participants to their provider lists and/or to changes in beneficiary attribution. As such, these files should not be considered fully complete or final until approximately 6-12 months after a model has ended.
Data files are available for the following models:
Accountable Health Communities (AHC) Model - This model addressed a critical gap between clinical care and community services in the current health care delivery system by testing whether systematically identifying and addressing the health-related social needs of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries through screening, referral, and community navigation services will impact health care costs and reduce health care utilization.
ACO Realizing Equity, Access, and Community Health (REACH) Model - This model aims to improve the quality of care for people with Medicare through better care coordination, reaching and connecting health care providers and beneficiaries, including those beneficiaries who are underserved.
          Note: The ACO REACH model was previously called the Global and Professional Direct Contracting (GPDC) model.
Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI Advanced) Model - This model supports healthcare providers who invest in practice innovation and care redesign to better coordinate care and reduce expenditures, while improving the quality of care.
Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) - This model is designed to improve care for Medicare patients undergoing hip and knee replacements (also called lower extremity joint replacements or LEJR) performed in the inpatient or outpatient setting and for total ankle replacements performed in the inpatient setting.
Comprehensive Primary Care Plus (CPC+) Model - This national advanced primary care medical home model aims to strengthen primary care through regionally-based multi-payer payment reform and care delivery transformation.
Emergency Triage, Treat and Transport (ET3) Model - This model aims to improve quality and lower costs by reducing avoidable transports to hospital Emergency Departments and unnecessary hospitalizations following those transports.
End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Treatment Choices (ETC) Model - This model is intended to encourage greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for Medicare beneficiaries with ESRD, while reducing Medicare expenditures and preserving or enhancing the quality of care furnished to beneficiaries with ESRD.
Frontier Community Health Integration Project Demonstration (FCHIP) - This demonstration aims to develop and test new models of integrated, coordinated health care in the most sparsely-populated rural counties with the goal of improving health outcomes and reducing Medicare expenditures.
Frontier Community Health Integration Project Demonstration - Extension (EFCHIP) - This demonstration aims to develop and test new models of integrated, coordinated health care in the most sparsely-populated rural counties with the goal of improving health outcomes and reducing Medicare expenditures.
Graduate Nurse Education (GNE) Demonstration - Under the Graduate Nurse Education Demonstration, CMS provided reimbursements to up to five eligible hospitals for the reasonable cost of providing clinical training to advanced practice registered nursing (APRN) students added as a result of the demonstration.
Guiding an Improved Dementia Experience (GUIDE) Model - The model focuses on comprehensive, coordinated dementia care and aims to improve quality of life for people with dementia, reduce strain on their unpaid caregivers, and enable people with dementia to remain in their homes and communities.
Home Health Value-Based Purchasing (HHVBP) Model - This model is designed to improve the quality and delivery of home health care services to Medicare beneficiaries. Specific goals include providing incentives for better quality care with greater efficiency, studying new potential quality and efficiency measures for appropriateness in the home health setting, and enhancing the public reporting process.
Independence At Home (IAH) Demonstration - Under this model, the CMS Innovation Center works with medical practices to test the effectiveness of delivering comprehensive primary care services at home and to determine if doing so improves care for Medicare beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions. Additionally, the Demonstration rewards health care providers that provide high quality care while reducing costs.
Initiative to Reduce Avoidable Hospitalizations Among Nursing Facility Residents (NFI) - This effort aimed to improve the quality of care for people residing in long-term care (LTC) facilities by reducing avoidable hospitalizations.
Kidney Care Choices (KCC) Model - This model helps health care providers reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for patients with late-stage chronic kidney disease and ESRD and aims to delay the need for dialysis and encourage kidney transplantation.
Making Care Primary (MCP) Model - This model is a multi-payer model with three participation tracks that build upon previous primary care models. MCP aims to improve care for beneficiaries by supporting the delivery of advanced primary care services, which are foundational for a high-performing health system. The MCP Model provides a pathway for primary care clinicians with varying levels of experience in value-based care to gradually adopt prospective, population-based payments while building infrastructure to improve behavioral health and specialty integration and drive equitable access to care.
Maryland Total Cost of Care (MDTCOC) - CMS and the state of Maryland are partnering to test the model, which sets a per capita limit on Medicare total cost of care in Maryland. The MDTCOC Model is the first Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (Innovation Center) model to hold a state fully at risk for the total cost of care for Medicare beneficiaries.
Medicare Care Choices Model (MCCM) - This model tested a new option for Medicare beneficiaries to receive supported care services from selected hospice providers, while continuing to receive services provided by other Medicare providers, including care for their terminal condition.
Medicare-Medicaid Financial Alignment Initiative (FAI) - This initiative is designed to provide individuals dually enrolled for Medicare and Medicaid with a better care experience and to better align the financial incentives of the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Oncology Care Model (OCM) - In this model, physician practices enter into payment arrangements that include financial and performance accountability for episodes of care surrounding chemotherapy administration to cancer patients.
Pennsylvania Rural Health Model (PARHM) - This model seeks to test whether care delivery transformation in conjunction with hospital global budgets increases rural Pennsylvanians' access to high-quality care and improves their health, while also reducing the growth of hospital expenditures across payers, including Medicare, and improving the financial viability of rural Pennsylvania hospitals to improve health outcomes of and maintain continued access to care for Pennsylvania's rural residents.
Primary Care First (PCF) Model - This voluntary alternative five-year payment model rewards value and quality by using an innovative payment structure to support the delivery of advanced primary care.
Prior Authorization of Non-Emergent Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) Therapy - CMS implemented a prior authorization model from 2015 until 2018 for non-emergent HBO therapy in Illinois, Michigan, and New Jersey that tested whether prior authorization helps reduce expenditures, while maintaining or improving quality of care.
Prior Authorization of Repetitive, Scheduled Non-Emergent Ambulance Transport (RSNAT) - The model establishes a prior authorization process for repetitive, scheduled non-emergent ambulance transports to reduce the utilization of services that do not comply with Medicare policy while maintaining or improving quality of care.
Rural Community Hospital Demonstration (RCH) - This program tests the feasibility and advisability of cost-based reimbursement for small hospitals that are too large to be Critical Access Hospitals. CMS is conducting an intensive evaluation of the demonstration, assessing the financial impact on participating hospitals, as well as the effect on health care for the populations served.
Transforming Clinical Practice Initiative (TCPI) - The Transforming Clinical Practice Initiative (TCPI) model was uniquely designed to support clinician practices through nationwide, collaborative, and peer-based learning networks designed to help clinicians and practices to achieve large scale health care transformation, prepare practices to successfully participate in value-based payment arrangements, including Alternative Payment Models (APMs), and improve the quality of care.
Value in Opioid Use Disorder Treatment (ViT) Demonstration Program - This is a four-year demonstration program authorized under section 1866F of the Social Security Act (Act), which was added by section 6042 of the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act (SUPPORT Act). The purpose of the demonstration, as stated in the statute, is to “increase access of applicable beneficiaries to opioid use disorder treatment services, improve physical and mental health outcomes for such beneficiaries, and to the extent possible, reduce [Medicare program expenditures].”
Vermont All-Payer Model (VTAPM) - This model is CMS’s test of an alternative payment model in which the most significant payers throughout the entire state – Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial health care payers – incentivize health care value and quality, with a focus on health outcomes, under the same payment structure for the majority of providers throughout the state’s care delivery system and transform health care for the entire state and its population.
The group of models for which CMDS participation files are available will expand over time to include additional models.
The model IDs for the 28 models in the CMDS file set is depicted in the table below.
CMDS Models
 Model ID Model Name Short Name Comments
52Accountable Health Communities ModelAHCModel Status: Ended. Q3 2024 is the only data submission.
63ACO Realizing Equity, Access, and Community HealthACO REACHPreviously titled GPDC.
54Bundled Payment for Care Improvement Advanced ModelBPCI-A 
33Comprehensive Care for Joint ReplacementCJRModel Status: Ended. No new Entity and Provider file data for this model after Q4 2025; additional updates expected for Beneficiary data.
22Comprehensive Primary Care Plus ModelCPC+Model Status: Ended. No new data for this model after Q4 2022.
65Emergency Triage, Treat and Transport ModelET3Model Status: Ended. No new data for this model after Q3 2024.
64ESRD Treatment Choices ModelETC 
36Frontier Community Health Integration Project DemonstrationFCHIPQ4 2023 is the only data submission.
73Frontier Community Health Integration Project Demonstration - ExtensionEFCHIPQ3 2023 is the only data submission.
76Guiding an Improved Dementia Experience ModelGUIDE 
25Graduate Nurse Education DemonstrationGNEQ4 2023 is the only data submission.
37Home Health Value-Based Purchasing ModelHHVBPQ1 2023 is the only data submission.
01Independence At Home DemonstrationIAHModel Status: Ended. No new data for this model after Q1 2025.
46Initiative to Reduce Avoidable Hospitalizations Among Nursing Facility ResidentsNFIModel Status: Ended. Q1 2024 is the only data submission.
66Kidney Care ChoicesKCC 
75Making Care PrimaryMCPModel Status: Ended. No new data for this model after Q3 2025.
56Maryland Total Cost of CareMDTCOCNo data for this model in Q2 2023 or Q3 2024.
41Medicare Care Choices ModelMCCMQ4 2023 is the only data submission.
11Medicare-Medicaid Financial Alignment InitiativeFAI 
44Oncology Care ModelOCMModel Status: Ended. Note: As part of the Q4 2024 update, the OCM data will reflect the additional field: Beneficiary Operational End Date. However, the beneficiary cohort has not changed from the final beneficiary file released in Q4 2022.
27Pennsylvania Rural Health ModelPARHMQ3 2023 is the only data submission.
57Primary Care FirstPCF 
43Prior Authorization of Non-Emergent Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy HBOModel Status: Ended. Q1 2024 is the only data submission.
42Prior Authorization of Repetitive, Scheduled Non-Emergent Ambulance TransportRSNATModel Status: Ended. Q2 2024 is the only data submission.
28Rural Community Hospital DemonstrationRCH 
48Transforming Clinical Practice InitiativeTCPIModel Status: Ended. Q1 2024 is the only data submission.
71Value in Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Demonstration ProgramViTModel Status: Ended. No new data for this model after Q1 2025.
53Vermont All-Payer ModelVTAPM 
 
For further detail, please refer to the specific model website accessible through https://innovation.cms.gov/innovation-models#views=models.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2016-2025 Q1
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
Q2 2026 may be requested after 7/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Entity 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CCMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Entity file is one of a set of three file types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Provider 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Provider file is one of a set of three file types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for each…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						CMMI Model Data Sharing Beneficiary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The CMMI Model Data Sharing (CMDS) Beneficiary file is one of a set of three files types (entity, provider, beneficiary) included for…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

