 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) File 1: Measures File (does not include Plan All-Cause Readmission measure)



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The HEDIS Measures file is a person-level file that includes information about all HEDIS measures, except the Plan All-Cause Readmission measure, which is included in HEDIS File 2. It represents beneficiaries enrolled in each MA plan/contract during the year. The file contains indicator variables for whether the beneficiary met the denominator and numerator requirements for each of the HEDIS measures, as well as weights for some measures.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)


Colorectal cancer screening

Comprehensive diabetes care (multiple measures)

High risk medication usage


Each record represents the experience of a beneficiary in a specific plan for the calendar year (CY). Beneficiaries enrolled in more than one plan during the CY will have multiple records in this file.

Beneficiaries can be linked to other beneficiary data via the BENE_ID and to plan information via the HEDIS_CONTRACT_ID and HEDIS_PLAN_ID variables.


      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary, Plan and Provider
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2015-2021**
**There was no HEDIS data submission requirement for the 2019 measurement year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The contents of the data vary by measurement year and source of data. CMS records can change annually. CCW is the data source.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) File 2: Plan All-Cause Readmission (PCR) Measure 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The HEDIS Medicare Advantage Plan All-Cause Readmissions (PCR) File (referred to as File 2 in the file name) is a patient-level file…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Plan Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Plan Characteristics file contains Medicare Advantage plan and Prescription Drug Plan information separated into six subfiles.The…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicare Data on Provider Practice and Specialty 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Data on Provider Practice and Specialty (MD-PPAS) file assigns Medicare providers to medical practices based on the tax…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

