 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Health Outcomes Survey



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) collects patient-reported outcomes measures from beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans. The Medicare HOS program collects health status data for use in quality improvement activities, plan accountability documentation, and health improvement activities in a base survey and two year follow-up survey. The baseline sample size is 1,200.

      
            
HOS variables contain the following information in a baseline survey and two-year follow-up survey:
Demographic information including primary language
Disability status
Physical and mental health status
HEDIS Effectiveness of Care measures
Health-related quality of life (HRQOL)
Special considerations
CMS will provide additional file specifications to researchers with approved data requests.
Information on the survey and data can be found on the Medicare Health Outcomes Survey website.
 

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Survey
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                        

  
    
      
      

          
Learn more about the Limited Data Set version of this file:
Visit the CMS Website


    

  
          


 
                          

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Cohort 18 (2015-2017) - Cohort 25 (2022-2024)
Not available to CCW VRDC users.
Please check the HOS website for the latest information.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Health and Retirement Survey - Medicare Linked Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Health and Retirement Study (HRS)-Medicare linked dataset includes HRS survey information linked to CMS claims and assessment data…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers & Systems 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			CMS administers several surveys to assess beneficiary experience with different types of health care. Some of these are CMS-only…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) - Medicare Linked Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) collects interview data on functioning in late life among the elderly…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

