 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Health and Retirement Survey - Medicare Linked Data



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Health and Retirement Study (HRS)-Medicare linked dataset includes HRS survey information linked to CMS claims and assessment data for the HRS study population. The HRS has been fielded since 1992 and surveys more than 30,000 people age 50 and older.


The Health and Retirement Study (HRS) is designed to:



	
facilitate understanding of the relationship between medical history and financial status

	
examine how use of health care may change as people age.



The longitudinal survey data is linked to CMS data to provide information on health care utilization and beneficiary assessment.


CMS is no longer distributing this file. See the NIA Data LINKAGE Program website to request this data.


      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
HRS data include:
Demographic and background information, including household
Physical and mental health
Cognition
Functional limitations
Employment
Disability
Health insurance
Assets and Income
Wills, including advanced directives
Linked files include:
Medicare denominator/Beneficiary Summary File (BSF)
 Medicare fee-for-service (FFS) claims
Inpatient, MedPAR, Outpatient, Durable Medical Equipment (DME), Carrier, Skilled Nursing Facility, Home Health, Hospice
 Part D drug event (PDE) file
Assessment data Minimum Data Set (MDS)
Home Health Outcome and Assessment Information Set (OASIS)
Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX)
Summary file, inpatient, long term care services, other services, file, drug record, personal summary
Special considerations
Years of CMS data vary by file, please see the HRS-Medicare website.
Data security requirements are different from the standard CMS requirements. Contact HRS for more information.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Linked, Survey
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
CY 1991-2015
CMS is no longer distributing this file. See the NIA Data LINKAGE Program website to request this data.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers & Systems 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			CMS administers several surveys to assess beneficiary experience with different types of health care. Some of these are CMS-only…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) - Medicare Linked Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) collects interview data on functioning in late life among the elderly…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Health Outcomes Survey 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) collects patient-reported outcomes measures from beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

