 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Kidney Care Choices Model Alignment Beneficiary



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
CMS has created an analytical file that contains enrollment data for beneficiaries with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who are aligned to participating providers in the Kidney Care Choices (KCC) Model.
A related file, the KCC Model Provider file, contains identifying information about the providers participating in the KCC Model.

      
            
The KCC Model builds upon the earlier Comprehensive End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Care (CEC) Model structure, in which dialysis facilities, nephrologists, and other health care providers form ESRD-focused accountable care organizations to provide higher-quality, cost-effective care for beneficiaries with late-stage chronic kidney disease (CKD) and ESRD. CMS designed the KCC model to delay the onset of ESRD, better prepare patients for dialysis, coordinate care across different healthcare settings, and incentivize kidney transplantation.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Beneficiary ID
Beneficiary Demographic Information
Alignment Start Date
Beneficiary Monthly Kidney Disease Status
Beneficiary Monthly Eligibility Status
Special Considerations
This file can be linked to any other CMS file that includes the Beneficiary ID.
The KCC Model Performance Period began on January 1, 2022, and will continue through December 31, 2027.
For more information about the KCC Model, visit the CMS Innovation Center website or reference the CCW user guide. Questions about the model can be directed to [email protected].

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2022
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Kidney Care Choices Model Provider 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			CMS has created an analytical file that contains identifying information about providers participating in the Kidney Care Choices (KCC…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

