 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Long-Term Care Hospital Continuity Assessment Record and Evaluation Data Set



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Long-Term Care Hospital (LTCH) Continuity Assessment Record and Evaluation (CARE) Data Set (LCDS) is the assessment instrument LTCH providers use to collect patient assessment data in accordance with the LTCH Quality Reporting Program (QRP). This assessment instrument is used for all patients receiving inpatient services in a facility certified as a hospital and designated as an LTCH under the Medicare program. Patient assessment data is collected on all patients at admission, discharge (planned or unplanned), and for patients who have expired.

      
            
This is an all-payer dataset completed for all patients receiving care in the LTCH including, but not limited to, Medicare Fee-for-Service (FFS) and Medicare Advantage beneficiaries and includes condition categories used to calculate scores for LTCH quality measure data.
LCDS assessment records are submitted to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) from all Medicare certified LTCHs in accordance with the data submission requirements identified in the Long-Term Care Hospital (LTCH) Continuity Assessment Record and Evaluation (CARE) Data Set (LCDS) Manual.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Beneficiary ID
Beneficiary demographic information
Facility provider identifiers and location
Admission and discharge dates
Beneficiary diagnoses, functional status and other physical status information
Beneficiary cognitive pattern assessment
Use of medications in high-risk drug classes
Selected procedures, treatments and programs
Special Considerations
For more information about the LCDS, please see the LCDS Manual on the CMS website.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Assessment
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Annual: 2014-2024
Monthly*: 2025 and 2026
*Data is only available to CCW VRDC users, and cannot be shipped.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
Annual: 2025 may be requested after 2/1/2027
Monthly: 2027 may be requested after 12/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      
  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

