 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Medicaid Analytic Extract Prescription Drug



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) Prescription Drug (RX) file includes records of filled prescriptions from fee-for-service (FFS) claims paid by Medicaid and encounter records for prescription drugs paid by a Medicaid managed care organization.

      
            
The Medicaid RX Prescription Drug file includes fee-for-service (FFS) claim and managed care encounter records that contain a National Drug Code (NDC) for a filled prescription.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
National Drug Code (NDC)
Days supply covered by the prescription
Charges and Medicaid  payments (FFS only)
National Provider Identifier (NPI) for the billing provider
Special considerations
Encounter record reporting may not be complete. Data reporting may vary by state, year, eligibility group
Information on the drug name, dosage and format is not recorded in the MAX RX file. An external source of NDC data will be required if that information is needed.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicaid
Category: 
Medicaid Utilization
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
1999-2015
For calendar years 2014 and 2015, the CMS Medicaid research files will be in either the MAX or TAF format depending on when the state transitioned to T-MSIS data submissions.
MAX files in 2013, 2014, and 2015, while in the MAX file format, may have used T-MSIS data as the source data. Please see the state and year availability table: 

  
  
  

    
Document

              
    
                  
MAX TAF Availability Matrix.xlsx14.42 KB
            

          



Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Analytic Extract Other Services 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) Other Services (OT) file contains claim records for a variety of Medicaid services, including…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

