 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Medicare Bayesian Improved Surname Geocoding



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Medicare Bayesian Improved Surname Geocoding (MBISG) research data is an annual snapshot file that contains race and ethnicity probabilities for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled at a specific point in time each year from 2023 forward.

      
            
The MBISG algorithm was developed by CMS to augment existing race and ethnicity data from the Social Security Administration and produce more accurate indirect estimates of the race and ethnicity of the Medicare beneficiary population. The MBISG data includes a set of probabilities that the beneficiary is a member of six racial and ethnic groups: American Indian or Alaska Native (AI/AN), Asian American and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (AA and NHPI), Black, Hispanic, Multiracial, or White. MBISG probabilities are based on U.S. Census Bureau data on race and ethnicity distributions by surname and Census block group, as well as CMS’s race and ethnicity administrative data and additional administrative elements including first name, demographics, and coverage characteristics.
The MBISG data consists of a single file that contains the race and ethnicity probabilities of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled on March 1st of each year. Each enrollment year of data is a separate snapshot file. In addition, the file contains a variable that represents the probability that a beneficiary prefers Spanish language survey material.
The cohort may be linked to claims or Medicare eligibility data using the Beneficiary ID.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Beneficiary ID
Data File Reference Date
Race/Ethnicity Probabilities (6 variables)
Predicted Spanish Preference Category
Special Considerations
The MBISG dataset is separate from CCW’s Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF), which is partitioned by calendar year. The MBISG dataset will overlap with MBSF files, but the cohort does not match exactly to any given MBSF calendar year dataset.
For more information about the MBISG data, please contact [email protected].

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
March 2023
March 2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Cost and Use 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Cost and Use segment includes one record for each beneficiary enrolled in Medicare in the…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Other Chronic or Potentially Disabling Conditions 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Other Chronic or Potentially Disabling Conditions segment flags beneficiary records for the…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File 30 CCW Chronic Conditions 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The 30 CCW Chronic Conditions segment of the Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) flags each Medicare beneficiary for the presence…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

