 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare Advantage (Part C) and the Prescription Drug Program (Part D) plan enrollment information is included.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
State, county annual SSA codes
State, county monthly FIPS codes
Zip code, State and County
Date of birth, date of death
Race
Reason for entitlement
Monthly enrollment for each part of the Medicare program, A/B/C/D
Dual eligible status
Part C plan and enrollment information
Part D plan and enrollment information
Part D low income cost sharing
Special considerations
An enhanced version of this file (MBSF Base A/B/C/D V2) is available starting with the 2023 enrollment year. When requesting 2023 data, researchers will receive both the current MBSF Base A/B/C/D and the new V2 files. The current MBSF Base A/B/C/D file will no longer be produced starting with annual 2024 data. For more detailed information about the MBSF data and enhancements, reference the CCW Medicare Administrative Data User Guide and Codebook.
Four additional segments are available for order with this file:
Chronic Conditions
Other Chronic Conditions
Cost and Use
National Death Index (NDI)
Part C and Part D enrollment information are available beginning with the 2006 file year. Years prior to 2006 include an indicator variable for managed care enrollment.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                        

  
    
      
      

          
Learn more about the Limited Data Set version of this file:
Visit the CMS Website


    

  
          


 
                          

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Annual: 1999-2023
Quarterly: 2024 Q1-Q4
Quarterly 2024 MBSF files will continue to be provided in the current version.
The Part D variables in the Base segment are available for years 2006 and forward only.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File 27 CCW Chronic Conditions 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The 27 CCW Chronic Conditions segment of the Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) flags each Medicare beneficiary for the presence…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Other Chronic or Potentially Disabling Conditions 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Other Chronic or Potentially Disabling Conditions segment flags beneficiary records for the…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Cost and Use 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Cost and Use segment includes one record for each beneficiary enrolled in Medicare in the…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File National Death Index 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) National Death Index (NDI) segment includes cause of death information from death…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

