 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Master Beneficiary Summary File Cost and Use



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Cost and Use segment includes one record for each beneficiary enrolled in Medicare in the calendar year of the file.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Summary of utilization and total annual payments for services such as:
physician visits, dialysis, DME, IP recorded emergency room visits, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, anesthesia, imaging, Part B drugs from Fee-for-service (FFS) Medicare
Number of hospital stays, Medicare covered days and total annual inpatient payments for services covered by FFS Medicare
Summary of Part D payments, events and prescription fills
This file is a segment that can be requested in addition to the Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) base file.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
1999-2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 may be requested after 12/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File 27 CCW Chronic Conditions 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The 27 CCW Chronic Conditions segment of the Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) flags each Medicare beneficiary for the presence…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Other Chronic or Potentially Disabling Conditions 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Other Chronic or Potentially Disabling Conditions segment flags beneficiary records for the…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File National Death Index 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) National Death Index (NDI) segment includes cause of death information from death…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

