 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Medicare Data on Provider Practice and Specialty



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Medicare Data on Provider Practice and Specialty (MD-PPAS) file assigns Medicare providers to medical practices based on the tax identification numbers and elaborates on the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) provider specialty classification. This provider-level dataset is built around two identifiers: the national provider identifier (NPI) and the tax identification number (TIN).

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
The MD-PPAS contain data on specialty, TIN practice assignment, place of service information, provider demographics, geographic location, and summary Medicare utilization measures for over 1.2 million providers.
The MD-PPAS has been updated to version 2.4 from version 2.3 to reflect the following changes:
The MD-PPAS data include a modified broad specialty variable that provides a more detailed breakdown of non-physician specialties.
The data also include two additional variables related to the percent of providers' line items that are performed in a given place of service (POS). Specifically, MD-PPAS data now include variables that report the percent of line items performed in urgent care centers and retail clinics.
Special considerations
The data use a new methodology to assign providers to CBSAs based on the zip code reported on their submitted claims. This change resulted in a small percentage of providers with different values for their CBSA code and type variable.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Plan and Provider
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2008-2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 may be requested after 5/1/2027


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      
  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

