 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Long Term Care Minimum Data Set 2.0



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Long Term Care Minimum Data Set (MDS) is a health status screening and assessment tool used for all residents of long term care nursing facilities certified to participate in Medicare or Medicaid, regardless of payer. The assessment is also required for Medicare payment of skilled nursing facility stays. Assessment data for Skilled Nursing Swing Beds 2.0 is included in a separate file. Version 2.0 was replaced by MDS version 3.0 on October 1, 2010.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)


Resource Utilization Group (RUG) code

Clinical status measures

Physical functioning assessment

Psychological status measures

Psycho-social functioning measure

End-of-life care decisions



      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare, Medicaid
Category: 
Assessment
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
1999-September 2010
The years listed reflect the most recent full year available through the CCW. The version of the MDS changed from 2.0 to 3.0 on 10/01/2010. The 4th quarter of 2010 data is version 3.0.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) Skilled Nursing Facility 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Original Medicare Fee-for-Service (FFS) Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) file contains information from paid bills submitted by…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Analytic Extract Long Term Care 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) Long Term (LT) Care file contains claim records for institutional long term care provided at four…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Analytic Extract Personal Summary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) Personal Summary (PS) file contains one record for every individual eligible for and enrolled in…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

