 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Medicaid Enrollee Supplemental File: National Death Index Segment



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The National Death Index (NDI) segment of the Medicaid Enrollee Supplemental File (MESF) includes cause of death information from death certificates provided through linkage with the NDI cause of death information.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
NDI date of death
ICD-10 description and code for cause of death
Underlying conditions for cause of death
CDC category code for cause of death
Special considerations
Some states are not included in the later years. See specific availability below.
This is a segment of the MESF file. Another segment, the Conditions Segment can also be requested.
Only beneficiaries with a date of death in the annual Medicaid enrollment file are included in the file. The date can be the Medicaid date of death reported in MAX/TAF or the Medicare date of death for the dually eligible.
A bridge file will be provided to assist researchers who are conducting longitudinal analysis involving the 2020 MESF NDI file and the 2020 or 2021 TAF research files. For additional information, see the CCW T-MSIS Analytic Files (TAF) User Guide, section 5A, footnote 29, posted on CCW’s User Documentation page.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicaid
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
1999-2024*
*Data is only available to CCW VRDC users, and cannot be shipped.
The MESF NDI file is not available for all states in all years. In some cases, states did not have data available at the time the death date cohort was pulled.
2011-2013 CA and UT reported no death dates and are excluded for these years.
2011 – 48 states, includes all states except CA, CO, UT
2012 – 45 states, includes all states except CA,CO, ID, KS, RI
2013 - 26 states including AR, AZ, CT, GA, HI, IA, ID, IN, LA, MA, MI, MN, MO, MS, NJ, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, SD, TN, VT, WA, WV
Researchers interested in the NDI cause of death information for the dually eligible can request the MBSF NDI file.
 
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Enrollee Supplemental File: Conditions Segment 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Conditions segment of the Medicaid Enrollee Supplemental File (MESF) flags each Medicaid beneficiary for the presence of one of 27…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Analytic Extract Personal Summary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) Personal Summary (PS) file contains one record for every individual eligible for and enrolled in…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

