 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Million Hearts® Model Final Clinical



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Final Clinical file is a model-curated version of the information in the Raw Clinical data. Million Hearts® business rules are applied to the raw data and select information is extracted and translated into custom codes.
Note that clinical data excludes all “Incomplete” visits.

      
            
What is a clinical data element? Data fields that can be collected, utilized, or stored in various application systems.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Beneficiary ID
Model-Assigned Practice ID
Model-Assigned Patient ID
Provider NPI
Activity Date
Activity End Date
Provider NPI
Clinical Service Procedure Code
Clinical Service Procedure Modifier
Service Units
A record represents one clinical data element per beneficiary. Beneficiaries that have multiple clinical data elements will have multiple records.
The Unique Model-Assigned Patient ID can be used to link to other Million Hearts® beneficiary files (demographic, visit, and alignment), but cannot link to other CCW non-Million Hearts® files.
The Model-Assigned Practice ID can be used to link all Million Hearts® data files for provider-oriented analytics. It does not link to other CCW provider data.
The Beneficiary ID can be linked to other beneficiary records in this dataset and other CCW Medicare data.
The NPI can be linked to other records with NPI in this dataset and other CCW Medicare data.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2017-2021
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Provider List 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Provider List file contains the list of all NPIs enrolled in the model, including the activation and deactivation dates.
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Alignment 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The eleven model alignment files contain the point-in-time eligibility and alignment status of model beneficiaries, and a list of…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

