 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Million Hearts® Cardiovascular Disease Risk Reduction Model



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Million Hearts® Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) Risk Reduction Model was a randomized controlled trial that sought to bridge a gap in cardiovascular care by providing targeted incentives for health care practitioners to engage in beneficiary CVD risk calculation and population-level risk management. Instead of focusing on the individual components of risk, participating organizations engaged in risk stratification across a beneficiary panel to identify those at highest risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD).

      
            
The Million Hearts® Cardiovascular Disease Risk Reduction Model used data-driven predictive modeling approaches to generate individualized risk scores and mitigation plans for eligible Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries.
The data from the trial is released as a suite of seventeen linked data files. The data include detailed information about the beneficiaries, physician practices, specific providers and clinic visits. The files do not contain names, street addresses or contact information. However, they can be linked to other CMS files through the CCW beneficiary ID.
The following data files are included in the model:
Raw Clinical File - all visit and clinical data for beneficiaries as it was uploaded to the data collection registry by the provider
Final Clinical File - a model-curated version of the raw clinical data
Beneficiary Demographic File - demographic data submitted by the practice
Visit File – All data extracted to create a beneficiary visit, and includes the generated risk scores and baseline groups for each participating beneficiary
Practice List File - information about practices enrolled in the model
Provider List File - information about the providers (National Provider Identifiers) enrolled in the model
Alignment Files (11) – Point-in-time beneficiary alignment and program eligibility determination analytic file. This alignment validation process occurred semi-annually throughout the duration of the model.
For more information on the Million Hearts® Cardiovascular Disease Risk Reduction Model, visit the CMS Innovation Center website.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2017-2021
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Practice List 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Practice List file contains the list of all practices enrolled in the model, including an indicator if the practice is active and…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Provider List 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Provider List file contains the list of all NPIs enrolled in the model, including the activation and deactivation dates.
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Alignment 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The eleven model alignment files contain the point-in-time eligibility and alignment status of model beneficiaries, and a list of…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

