 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Million Hearts® Model Beneficiary Demographic



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Beneficiary Demographic file contains all beneficiary demographic information entered via manual entry and upload to the model data collection registry. Additionally, partial beneficiary data that was created through the semi-annual beneficiary alignment validation process is also included and could be considered a data input method. The file is at the beneficiary level, with one record for each beneficiary. It’s possible for the same beneficiary to appear in the file twice, if two or more organizations tried to enroll the same beneficiary.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Beneficiary ID
Model-Assigned Patient ID
Patient Date of Birth
Patient Sex
Patient Race
Patient Ethnicity
A record represents a single beneficiary. Some beneficiaries may have more than one record if more than one organization tried to enroll them in the trial.
The Unique Model-Assigned Patient ID can be used to link to other Million Hearts® beneficiary files (demographic, visit, and alignment), but cannot link to other CCW non-Million Hearts® files.
The Beneficiary ID can be linked to other beneficiary records in this dataset and other CCW Medicare data.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2017-2021
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Provider List 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Provider List file contains the list of all NPIs enrolled in the model, including the activation and deactivation dates.
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Alignment 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The eleven model alignment files contain the point-in-time eligibility and alignment status of model beneficiaries, and a list of…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

