 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Million Hearts® Model Alignment



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The eleven model alignment files contain the point-in-time eligibility and alignment status of model beneficiaries, and a list of eligible-but-not-enrolled patients for participating practice reporting. These alignment validation files, also known as Enrollment, Validation, Alignment, and Adjudication (EVAA) files, were generated semi-annually throughout the duration of the model, each October and April. There were a total of 10 EVAA analytical cycles, between October 2017 and April 2022. The model alignment file names indicate the cycle number (01-10) and the year and month of the cycle. In addition, there is a final model alignment file that represents the alignment status of model beneficiaries at the end of the model.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Model-Assigned Practice ID
Practice Name
Practice TIN
Unique Model-Assigned Patient ID
Aligned Flag
Eligible Flag
Patient Status Change Reason Code
A record represents the eligibility and alignment status of a beneficiary.
The Unique Model-Assigned Patient ID can be used to link to other Million Hearts® beneficiary files (demographic, visit, and alignment), but cannot link to other CCW non-Million Hearts® files.
The Model-Assigned Practice ID can be used to link all Million Hearts® data files for provider-oriented analytics. It does not link to other CCW provider data.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2017-2021
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Practice List 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Practice List file contains the list of all practices enrolled in the model, including an indicator if the practice is active and…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Million Hearts® Model Provider List 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Provider List file contains the list of all NPIs enrolled in the model, including the activation and deactivation dates.
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

