 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Medicare-Medicaid Linked Enrollee Analytic Data Source 3.0



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Medicare-Medicaid Linked Enrollee Analytic Data Source (MMLEADS) 3.0 suite of files combines Medicare and Medicaid enrollment and claims data into two annual beneficiary-level files. The files include beneficiaries who are Medicare-only, Medicare-Medicaid dually enrolled and Medicaid-only blind and disabled.

      
            
What is different about MMLEADS 3.0?
MMLEADS now consists of two files—a beneficiary summary file and single cost (i.e., payments) and use (i.e., claim counts) file that combines Medicare and Medicaid information. CCW Chronic Condition and other condition flags are no longer provided.
Source data
Medicare: FFS, PDE and MA
Medicaid: T-MSIS data
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Eligibility, enrollment variables
Aggregated claim counts and payment amounts
Medicare: FFS, PDE includes FFS and MA
Medicaid: FFS, managed care encounter where available
Both files are released for approved MMLEADS data requests
Beneficiary file
Medicare and Medicaid cost and use file

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare, Medicaid
Category: 
Linked
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2016-2021
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Analytic Extract Personal Summary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) Personal Summary (PS) file contains one record for every individual eligible for and enrolled in…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicaid Enrollee Supplemental File: Conditions Segment 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Conditions segment of the Medicaid Enrollee Supplemental File (MESF) flags each Medicaid beneficiary for the presence of one of 27…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

