 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Oncology Care Model Clinical and Staging



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Oncology Care Model (OCM) Clinical and Staging file includes information about the episodes, the practice ID to which they were attributed, their beginning and end dates, their cancer types, and the clinical and staging characteristics that were required to be reported.

      
            
This file contains data for the third through eleventh OCM performance periods (episodes initiating July 2, 2017 - December 31, 2021), primarily including data reported by OCM participants to the Oncology Care Model Registry (OCMR).

What does this file include? (variable highlights)


Beneficiary ID

Episode Beginning Date

Episode Ending Date

OCM-Assigned Practice ID

OCM-Assigned Cancer Type

OCM 6-Month Episode Performance Period

ICD10 Cancer Diagnosis Code

Primary Tumor Staging

Nodal Disease Staging

Metastasis Staging

Histology


Special Considerations


There is one row per episode and beneficiaries can appear multiple times in the file depending on the number of 6-month episodes initiated.

The Clinical and Staging data file and the Current Clinical Status data file can be linked by the Beneficiary ID, ICD10 Cancer Diagnosis Code Reported by Participant, and the Initial Diagnosis Date.

The file does not include any treatment data such as surgery, radiation, hormonal therapy or chemotherapy. Researchers may wish to obtain Medicare claims data for a population they identify within the OCM data files. The Beneficiary ID can be used to link to Medicare claims.



      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
July 2017-June 2022
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Oncology Care Model 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Oncology Care Model (OCM) operated from July 2016-June 2022 and aimed to provide higher quality, precisely coordinated oncology…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Oncology Care Model Current Clinical Status 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Oncology Care Model (OCM) Current Clinical Status file includes information on the reported Current Clinical Status (CCS) for a…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

