 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Oncology Care Model



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Oncology Care Model (OCM) operated from July 2016-June 2022 and aimed to provide higher quality, precisely coordinated oncology care at the same or lower cost to Medicare.

      
            
Under OCM, physician practices entered into payment arrangements with CMS that included financial and performance accountability for episodes of care surrounding chemotherapy administration to cancer patients. The practices which participated in OCM committed to providing enhanced services to Medicare beneficiaries such as care coordination, navigation, and adherence to national treatment guidelines for care.
OCM participants submitted staging and clinical data to the OCM Data Registry, a web-based data submission and collection tool, for their attributed episodes.
The data from the Oncology Care Model (OCM) is a set of two linkable files, which are both provided for a research request (i.e., cannot be requested separately):
The Clinical and Staging file contains practice-reported staging and clinical data, which includes basic information on the episodes attributed to model participants.
The Current Clinical Status file contains practice-reported, cancer-specific clinical and staging patient status values.
The data includes information about the care episodes, the practice ID to which they were attributed, episode beginning and end dates, and the clinical and staging characteristics.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Special Programs
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
July 2017-June 2022
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Oncology Care Model Clinical and Staging 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Oncology Care Model (OCM) Clinical and Staging file includes information about the episodes, the practice ID to which they were…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Oncology Care Model Current Clinical Status 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Oncology Care Model (OCM) Current Clinical Status file includes information on the reported Current Clinical Status (CCS) for a…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

