 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Part D Drug Characteristics



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Medicare Part D Drug Characteristics file refers to a set of variables that are appended to the Medicare Part D Event (PDE) file. Researchers need to request the specific variables required for their study and CMS must approve the release.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Product ID (NDC) used to link Drug Characteristics to PDE file
Brand name
Generic name
Strength
Form of the drug
Why do researchers request this file?
Researchers who do not have access to a proprietary NDC database use this file to identify specific drugs, strengths and formulation
Studies assessing pharmaceutical treatment that compare strengths and/or formulations of prescription drugs
Studies evaluating drug utilization under the Medicare Part D program
Special considerations
Requests for any Part D data file require selection and justification for each requested variable.
This file does not include drug class or any other taxonomy variables.
The Part D Drug Characteristics file is not released as a freestanding file. Requested variables are appended to the requested PDE file. The structure is a flat file.
 
Product ID (NDC) used to link Drug Characteristics to PDE file
Brand name,
Generic name,
Strength
Form of the drug

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Part D
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2006-2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 may be requested after 9/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Plan Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Plan Characteristics file contains Medicare Advantage plan and Prescription Drug Plan information separated into six subfiles.The…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Pharmacy Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Part D Pharmacy Characteristics file provides information about the pharmacy identified as the source of the drug for each Part D…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Medication Therapy Management Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			This file includes beneficiary-level information for participants in the Part D Medication Therapy Management (MTM) program, required…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Plan Election Type Beneficiary Summary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			This Medicare Part D file identifies beneficiaries covered by the Low Income Subsidy (LIS) program for Part D Plan enrollment. 
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

