 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Part D Medication Therapy Management Data



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
This file includes beneficiary-level information for participants in the Part D Medication Therapy Management (MTM) program, required of CMS Part D plans. Eligible beneficiaries include those enrolled in Part D plans with multiple chronic disease, those taking multiple Part D drugs and those likely to have expenditures exceeding a specified level as described by federal regulations.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Whether beneficiary met target criteria
Long term care residence
Number of drug-therapy recommendations made
Number of drug-therapy problems resolved
Linking variable
CCW Beneficiary IDs
Why do researchers request this file?
Assess the effect of medication management on prescribing patterns and clinical outcome
Identify cost of illness impact of the Part D MTM program
Special considerations
All beneficiaries in the file were enrolled in MTM at some point during the year.  Not everyone in file received MTM services.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Part D
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2013-2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 may be requested after 3/1/2027


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Prescriber Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Part D Prescriber Characteristics file contains descriptive information for the prescriber identified on a Part D Event…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Pharmacy Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Part D Pharmacy Characteristics file provides information about the pharmacy identified as the source of the drug for each Part D…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Formulary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Part D Formulary file is a suite of five sub-files: Formulary, Excluded Drug, Over-the-Counter Drug, Indication-based…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Plan Election Type Beneficiary Summary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			This Medicare Part D file identifies beneficiaries covered by the Low Income Subsidy (LIS) program for Part D Plan enrollment. 
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

