 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Part D Plan Election Type Beneficiary Summary



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
This Medicare Part D file identifies beneficiaries covered by the Low Income Subsidy (LIS) program for Part D Plan enrollment. 

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Part D Plan enrollment and disenrollment dates
Enrollment type, eg:  auto, facilitated, passive, point of sale
Months of LIS subsidy
Beneficiary self-selector indicator
Contract ID
Plan ID
Linking variables:
CCW Beneficiary ID: linkage to the PDE and all other CMS Medicare or Medicaid data files
Contract ID and Plan ID: linkage to the Part D Plan Characteristics file
Why do researchers request this file?
Conduct research that identifies LIS beneficiaries and studies the effects of Part D auto-assignment, and reassignment policies.
Special considerations
There is at least one record for every beneficiary enrolled in Part D during the year; there may be multiple records if more than one plan was elected during the year.
This file consists of two sub-files, Part D Plan Election File and Part D Re-Assignment File. When the Part D Plan Election Type Beneficiary Summary File is requested and approved, both sub-files are automatically delivered. The two sub-files link by CCW Beneficiary ID.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Part D
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2007-2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 may be requested after 3/1/2027


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Prescriber Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Part D Prescriber Characteristics file contains descriptive information for the prescriber identified on a Part D Event…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Pharmacy Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Part D Pharmacy Characteristics file provides information about the pharmacy identified as the source of the drug for each Part D…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Medication Therapy Management Data 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			This file includes beneficiary-level information for participants in the Part D Medication Therapy Management (MTM) program, required…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

