 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Part D Event



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
When a Medicare beneficiary with Part D coverage fills a prescription, the prescription drug plan submits a record to CMS. The PDE file includes all transactions covered by the Medicare prescription drug plan for both Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs) and Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plans (MA-PDs).

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Service date
Product Service ID (NDC code)
Quantity dispensed
Days supply
Cost
Payment
Linkage variables:
Plan Contract ID, Plan Benefit Package ID for linkage to Plan Characteristics file
Product ID (NDC code) used by the CCW to link to the Drug Characteristics data
Beneficiary Id for linkage to MTM and Plan Election characteristics files, CMS utilization, enrollment and assessment data for Medicare and Medicaid
Formulary drug identifier for linkage to the Part D Formulary files
CCW Pharmacy ID or the NCPDP_ID for linkage to the Pharmacy Characteristics file
CCW-assigned Prescriber Identifier for linkage to the Prescriber Characteristics file
Why do researchers request this file?
Studies that include prescription drugs as a treatment of interest
Research comparing outcomes of treatment
Special considerations
These files do not have information on drugs given during hospitalizations or which are paid under other auspices (e.g., hospice)
If the Drug characteristics variables are selected during the request process, these are appended to the PDE.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Part D
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Annual: 2006-2024
Monthly*: 2025 and 2026
*Data is only available to CCW VRDC users, and cannot be shipped.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
Annual: 2025 may be requested after 9/1/2026
Monthly: 2027 may be requested after 12/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Formulary 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Part D Formulary file is a suite of five sub-files: Formulary, Excluded Drug, Over-the-Counter Drug, Indication-based…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Pharmacy Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Part D Pharmacy Characteristics file provides information about the pharmacy identified as the source of the drug for each Part D…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Part D Prescriber Characteristics 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Part D Prescriber Characteristics file contains descriptive information for the prescriber identified on a Part D Event…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

