 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Pioneer Accountable Care Organization



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has created a set of files that contain Pioneer Accountable Care Organizations information. There are three separate files in the set:
Provider-includes one record for each facility or professional participating provider
Beneficiary-each record represents an individual beneficiary who was associated with a Pioneer ACO
Settlement-one record for each Pioneer ACO provides information on the post-performance year financial settlement

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Provider file
Pioneer ACO ID
Tax identification number
Provider specialty code
Beneficiary file
Bene ID
Pioneer ACO ID
Aggregated expenditures and claim counts
Settlement file
Pioneer ACO ID
Beneficiary counts
Performance year expenditures and savings
Special considerations
Each file needs to be specified separately on a data request.
Only the Pioneer ACO Beneficiary file can be linked to other CMS data via the Bene ID.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Plan and Provider
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2012-2016
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Value Modifier Practice-Level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Value Modifier (VM) Practice-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each practice that was subject to the…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Value Modifier NPI Practice-Level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Value Modifier (VM) NPI Practice-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each eligible professional…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Value Modifier Beneficiary-Level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Value Modifier (VM) Beneficiary-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each beneficiary who was attributed…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicare Data on Provider Practice and Specialty 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Data on Provider Practice and Specialty (MD-PPAS) file assigns Medicare providers to medical practices based on the tax…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

