 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Plan Characteristics



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Plan Characteristics file contains Medicare Advantage plan and Prescription Drug Plan information separated into six subfiles.
The subfiles are:
Plan Base
Premium
Tier
Service Area
Plan Crosswalk
SNP Contract

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)


Initial and gap coverage limits

Plan premium amount

Plan service area description

Crosswalk of current plan ID to previous years

Demonstration type

Special needs plan type

Linkage variables to the PDE and to each of the Plan Characteristic File sub-files:

Plan Contract ID, Plan Benefit Package ID (use in combination to link to specific plan)




Why do researchers request this file?


Studies that compare medication usage and clinical outcomes by plan benefits


Special considerations


Plan identifiers are encrypted in the data prior to the CY2015 file, so researchers must use this file to find out more information about the plan. Beginning with the CY2015 file, plan contract ID numbers are not encrypted

This file consists of six sub-files.

When the Plan characteristics file is requested and approved, all subfiles are delivered.



      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary, Part D
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2006-2024
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 may be requested after 9/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) Hospice 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Original Medicare Fee-for-Service (FFS) Hospice file contains claims submitted by Medicare hospice providers. Records are…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

