 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Risk Score Operational Payment Base File



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) uses a risk adjustment process that is applied to payments made to Medicare Advantage Organizations (MAOs), which administer health plans for Medicare Advantage (MA) beneficiaries. This risk adjustment process creates risk scores designed to account for differences in health status among MA plan enrollees. Risk scores are calculated for all Medicare beneficiaries, regardless of whether the beneficiary was enrolled in Original Medicare (also known as Fee-For-Service Medicare) or MA during the payment year.
For a given payment year, the research risk score files include an Operational Payment Base File and Model Output Files (MOFs) from a mix of six potential risk models. The MOFs contain raw risk scores calculated prior to any adjustments made for payments. Each payment year has specific risk models that are based on that year’s risk adjustment methodology; payment years may use a blend of MOF risk scores as inputs to calculate the operational payment risk scores. MOF risk scores are converted into payment risk scores by applying payment year specific CMS-Hierarchical Condition Category (HCC) risk adjustment model normalization factors and an MA coding pattern difference adjustment. The MA coding pattern difference adjustment is based on MA enrollment during the payment year and may not be appropriate for analyzing FFS cohorts.
The Risk Score Operational Payment Base File is a beneficiary-level data file with variables containing monthly risk adjustment payment scores. The file uses a beneficiary’s demographic, care setting, and clinical characteristics to identify the beneficiary’s correct monthly payment score, i.e., the monthly “operational” risk scores for each beneficiary which determine what CMS pays an MAO for that beneficiary.
The research risk score files are designed to be used with other Chronic Conditions Warehouse (CCW) data products that contain a wide range of demographic and Medicare coverage information and can be linked to other CCW files using the Beneficiary ID variable.
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Monthly Part C risk payment scores
Monthly Part C model segment codes
Monthly Part D payment risk scores
Monthly Part D model segment codes
Long-term institutional monthly indicators
All possible Part C and Part D risk scores
Beneficiary demographic characteristics
Special considerations:
Reference the CCW Medicare Risk Score Files User Guide for more information on the operational payment risk score base file and model output files.
Reference the Report to Congress: Risk Adjustment in Medicare Advantage for a discussion of risk adjustment in the Medicare Advantage program.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Beneficiary Enrollment and Summary
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2019-2021
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      
  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

