 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) Skilled Nursing Facility



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Original Medicare Fee-for-Service (FFS) Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) file contains information from paid bills submitted by SNF institutional facility providers. Skilled nursing care is the only level of nursing home care that is covered by the Medicare program.
The information on the file records is based on the CMS form 1450 (UB04).

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Diagnosis codes (ICD diagnosis)
Procedure codes (ICD procedure)
Admission/discharge dates
FFS Reimbursement amount
SNF provider number

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Medicare Fee-For-Service Claims
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                        

  
    
      
      

          
Learn more about the Limited Data Set version of this file:
Visit the CMS Website


    

  
          


 
                          

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Annual: 1999-2024
Quarterly: 2024 Q1-Q4; 2025 Q1-Q3
Monthly*: 2025 and 2026
*Data is only available to CCW VRDC users, and cannot be shipped.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
Annual: 2025 may be requested after 12/1/2026
Quarterly: 2026 may be requested after 4/1/2026
Monthly: 2027 may be requested after 12/1/2026


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Medicare Provider Analysis and Review 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicare Provider Analysis and Review (MedPAR) file contains information about inpatient (IP) hospital and skilled nursing…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) Inpatient 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Original Medicare Fee-For-Service (FFS) Inpatient (IP) file contains fee-for-service claims submitted by inpatient hospital…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Original Medicare (Fee-for-Service) Outpatient 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Original Medicare Fee-for-Service (FFS) Outpatient (OP) file contains fee-for-service claims submitted by institutional outpatient…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Master Beneficiary Summary File Base A/B/C/D 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Master Beneficiary Summary File (MBSF) Base A/B/C/D file includes beneficiary enrollment information, (A/B/C/D). Medicare…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                      

                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

