 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Shared Savings Program Accountable Care Organizations Beneficiary-level



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
CMS has created a set of analytical files that contain data from the Medicare Shared Saving Program. There are two separate files in this data set:
The Shared Savings Program Beneficiary-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF)
The Shared Savings Program Provider-Level RIF

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
ACO ID
Assigned in Preliminary/Prospective Assignment Period
Assigned in Quarter 1
Assigned in Quarter 2
Assigned in Quarter 3
Assigned in Quarter 4
Assigned in Final Reconciliation
Part D Eligible Months
HICN (populated in PY2013-PY2019/2019-A)
Date of birth
Date of death
Sex
Race
Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI)
Special considerations
This file can be linked to any other CMS file that includes the Bene ID.
These files differ from the monthly Claim and Claim Line Feed (CCLF) files active Shared Savings Program ACOs receive from CMS. CCLF files include claims for the ACO’s assigned or assignable beneficiary population. The purpose of the CCLFs is to assist active Shared Savings Program ACOs with coordination of care. In contrast, Shared Savings Program Beneficiary-Level RIFs are statistics on beneficiaries and services included in each ACOs annual reconciliation. CCLF files cannot be linked to the Shared Savings Program Provider or Beneficiary RIFs.
Shared Savings Program RIFs do not include data for models such as ACO Realizing Equity, Access and Communication Health (ACO REACH) or Kidney Care Choices (KCC) models.
All technical questions related to the Shared Savings Program should be directed to the ACO Information Center at [email protected].

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Plan and Provider
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
Final: 2013-2024
Preliminary: 2025 and 2026
Quarterly: 2025 Q1-Q4, 2026 Q1
The Shared Savings Program Beneficiary-Level RIF was produced on an annual basis through Performance Year 2017. Starting Quarter 1 2018, the Shared Savings Program Beneficiary-Level RIF will be provided quarterly and annually.
Quarterly release schedule is August of current year for (Q1), November of current year for (Q2), February of following year for (Q3), and May of following year for (Q4)
 
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
2025 Final may be requested after 9/1/2026
2027 Preliminary may be requested after 2/1/2027
2027 Quarterly may be requested after 6/1/2027


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Value Modifier Beneficiary-Level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Value Modifier (VM) Beneficiary-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each beneficiary who was attributed…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Value Modifier NPI Practice-Level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Value Modifier (VM) NPI Practice-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each eligible professional…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Value Modifier Practice-Level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Value Modifier (VM) Practice-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each practice that was subject to the…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

