 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

T-MSIS Analytic File Long Term Care



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Medicaid and CHIP T-MSIS Analytic File (TAF) Long Term Care (LT) file contains records for institutional long term care provided by specific facilities identified by the Type of Service variable:
Nursing Facility Services
Mental Facility Services
Independent (free-standing) Psychiatric Wings of Acute Care Hospitals
Intermediate Care Facility (ICF) Services for Individuals With Intellectual Disabilities
The records in the LT TAF include fee-for-service (FFS) claims, managed care encounters and supplemental payments for Medicaid, Medicaid-expansion CHIP, and separate CHIP.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Diagnosis codes
Present on Admission indicator
Admission date
Charges and payments
Provider identifier
Patient discharge status or destination
Counts of covered days
Special considerations
Encounter data reporting may vary by state, year and eligibility group.
Stays may be made up of multiple records.
Long term care services provided to community-dwelling beneficiaries are found in the TAF OT file.
CMS continues to work with states to address data quality issues. In addition to preliminary and fully mature files, CMS may provide updated releases of the files for a given year. CMS has fee information for TAF data pricing.
ResDAC provides resources on Medicaid TAF data quality.
A bridge file will be provided to assist researchers that are conducting longitudinal analysis involving 2020 TAF research files along with earlier service years. For additional information, please see the CCW T-MSIS Analytic Files (TAF) User Guide posted on CCW’s User Documentation page.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicaid
Category: 
Medicaid Utilization
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2014-2023
Preliminary 2024
Note: For notifications about updates to this dataset, please refer to the Research Identifiable File Availability page. ResDAC no longer announces new data releases or updates to the data through its news feed.
For calendar years 2014 and 2015, the CMS Medicaid research files will be in either the MAX or TAF format depending on when the state transitioned to T-MSIS data submissions. 
Please see the state and year availability table:

  
  
  

    
Document

              
    
                  
MAX TAF Availability Matrix.xlsx14.42 KB
            

          



For earlier versions of Medicaid data, please refer to the MAX data file page.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						T-MSIS Analytic File Pharmacy 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicaid and CHIP T-MSIS Analytic File (TAF) Pharmacy (RX) file includes records of filled prescriptions. Records include fee-for-…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

