 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

T-MSIS Analytic File Annual Provider



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The T-MSIS Analytic File (TAF) Annual Provider (APR) file contains information about providers of Medicaid services—both facilities and individual providers. By linking the information in the APR to other TAFs by provider ID, users can enhance their analyses focused of providers. For example, users can identify whether the provider is a facility, group or individual; whether the provider’s specialty is primary care, obstetrics, or something else; how the provider is affiliated with other providers in a group practice; where the provider is located; and many other characteristics.

      
            
What does this file include (variable highlights)
Provider taxonomy indicators such as eye or vision, behavioral health, speech language or hearing services
Residential treatment facility indicator
Substance Use Disorder Service provider indicator
Special considerations
This file does not contain individual service records but contains information about providers that can be linked to individual service records.
CMS continues to work with states to address data quality issues. In addition to preliminary and fully mature files, CMS may provide updated releases of the files for a given year. Please see this page on CMS fee information for TAF data pricing.
ResDAC provides resources on Medicaid TAF data quality.
A bridge file will be provided to assist researchers that are conducting longitudinal analysis involving 2020 TAF research files along with earlier service years. For additional information, please see the CCW T-MSIS Analytic Files (TAF) User Guide posted on CCW’s User Documentation page.

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicaid
Category: 
Medicaid Utilization
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2014-2023
Preliminary 2024
Note: For notifications about updates to this dataset, please refer to the Research Identifiable File Availability page. ResDAC no longer announces new data releases or updates to the data through its news feed.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
TBD


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						T-MSIS Analytic File Pharmacy 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Medicaid and CHIP T-MSIS Analytic File (TAF) Pharmacy (RX) file includes records of filled prescriptions. Records include fee-for-…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						T-MSIS Analytic File Annual Managed Care Plan 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The T-MSIS Analytic File (TAF) Annual Managed Care Plan (APL) file contains information about managed care organizations serving…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

