 
  
    

      
          Skip to main content
      
    

    
      

                    

          

      

          
          

        

          

            

              
            
Reminder: DUA and VRDC access needs to be extended or renewed annually. Read more.


      
            

          

        

      

          
      


  


      

        

      



                
                

          

              

          
      
    
      
  


              

    

  
    
      

  
  	

	    


	      
	      
	      
	        
	        
	      
	    

	

  


  


            
  
Top Menu

  

        
      

                        

        A-Z Glossary
                  

                        

        Contact Us
                  

        

  

  


  


          


                      

                

    

  
    

      
            


      
  



  


            

          
                                

              

                                                  
                    Navigation Menu
                    
                    
                    
                  
                                

                    

    

          
      
      

                        

        Find CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Request CMS Data Files
                  

                        

        Search Data Variables
                  

                        

        Learn About CMS Data
                  

        

  

  


  


                

              

            

                            

      

    

  
  

    

      

          

        

Value Modifier Beneficiary-Level



  


                  

            View Data Documentation
          

              
  
    

    

      


                
                        


                                              
  

    


  


                      
                                              
                      
                                
              

      


  
    

  
  

    
            
The Value Modifier (VM) Beneficiary-Level Research Identifiable File (RIF) includes one record for each beneficiary who was attributed to a practice subject to the VM based on the given performance year. Using the RIF data, researchers can examine differences in beneficiary characteristics, costs across practices, and the stability of beneficiaries attributed to a specific practice across time. Program and participation information can be found on the CMS website.

      
            
What does this file include? (variable highlights)
Beneficiary identifiers
Practice identifier for the practice to which the beneficiary was attributed
Number and percent of primary care services provided to the beneficiary that were billed by the practice
HCC percentile risk score
Special considerations
Data documentation is specific to each performance year.
This RIF can be linked to any other CMS file that includes the Bene ID.
Two additional VM program RIFs are available:
VM Practice-Level RIF
VM NPI-Practice-Level RIF

      
  





  


              

  
    
      
      

          
Program: 
Medicare
Category: 
Plan and Provider
Privacy Level: 
Research Identifiable Files


    

  
          


 
                                      

  
    
      

      
Availability of this file

    

      
      

          
Availability: 
2013-2016
This file is only available in the VRDC.
Custom extracts are not available.
Date Requests Can Be Accepted for Upcoming Releases: 
N/A


    

  
            

      See more about all file availability
    

    


 
                  


                      

    

    

      

        

          

            See what is in this file
          

          

            View Data Documentation
          

        

      

    

    

        

  
    
      

      

        You might also be interested in these files
      

    

      
      

        

            

                  

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Pioneer Accountable Care Organization 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has created a set of files that contain Pioneer Accountable Care Organizations…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Shared Savings Program Accountable Care Organizations Provider-level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			CMS has created a set of analytical files that contain data from the Medicare Shared Saving Program. There are two separate…
		  
	
    

          

                      

          
                      

          
                      

          
                            

            

	

		

			

				

					

						  

 
					

				
      
				

					
						Shared Savings Program Accountable Care Organizations Beneficiary-level 
					
				
  
			

		

	


	
        
		 
			CMS has created a set of analytical files that contain data from the Medicare Shared Saving Program. There are two separate files…
		  
	
    

          

          
          
          
                        

      


 
    

  
      

          


 
    

  




  


    
    
































































  

